# NeCTAR Cloud Heat Template Demos

To use the quick start links below, first ensure you're logged into the NeCTAR Dashboard
https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au/ 
. Then click on the quick start link.  This will allow you to directly enter the "Create Orchestration - Select Template" dialog of the NeCTAR Dashboard with the correct github URL for the heat script already filled in.

Heat templates:
* [datascience-notebook.yaml](datascience-notebook.yaml) ([quick start link](https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au/project/stacks/select_template?template_source=url&template_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flylewinton%2FNeCTAR_demos%2Fmaster%2Fheat_demos%2Fdatascience-notebook.yaml))
  * Launches a Jupyter/iPython notebook accessible via the web.  The template attempts to enforce that a reasonable password is provided.  Check the heat output "notebook_url" for the web link, usually found in the Overview tab of the openstack web dashboard.  The template will not complete until the install completes successfully.  It uses the docker image provided by Jupyter, which takes quite a while to install (10 mins for me).  Note, that the GRANT_SUDO jupyter option allows for python packages to be installed via a notebook (eg. using "!pip install lightning-python"), so commandline access to the host should be unnecessary.
* [freenas-server.yaml](freenas-server.yaml) ([quick start link](https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au/project/stacks/select_template?template_source=url&template_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flylewinton%2FNeCTAR_demos%2Fmaster%2Fheat_demos%2Ffreenas-server.yaml))
  * Demonstrates a self maintaining server which turns cloud storage into a collaboration service.  Create a Data Volume first and copy its UUID for entry as an input.  The template launches a FreeNAS server connected to the Data Volume, which the server will format the first time.  Check the heat output "FreeNAS_URL" for the web link to setup and admin the server.  The server is based on a pre-config image built by uploading and booting the FreeNAS official ISO.  Operations tips are included in the template comments.  The template will complete before full boot up, so wait a few minutes.  With responsible backup of config and data this can be used as a production service.
* [rstudio-server.yaml](rstudio-server.yaml) ([quick start link](https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au/project/stacks/select_template?template_source=url&template_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flylewinton%2FNeCTAR_demos%2Fmaster%2Fheat_demos%2Frstudio-server.yaml))
  * Launches an RStudio Server accessible via the web.  Check the heat output "rstudio_url" for the web link, usually found in the Overview tab of the openstack web dashboard.  The template will not complete until the install completes successfully (4 mins for me).  It uses the docker image rocker/rstudio.  This template is similar to the datascience-notebook example but it pre-builds some R scripts within the container that 1. loads external test data 2. installs the ggplot2 package and 3. plots some example variables.
